okay
so I wanted to comment on
some pieces of this video I'm just gonna
play it here I turn the volume down a
little so you got to see this I was
cooking some onions and garlic frying
them in the pan and a little bit of
ginger and I don't know if you can see
that but my garlic turned green can you
see that green in there it's really I
can see it really well like right around
here you can't see it so well in this
camera but boy has it ever there's no
reason for that and I just wonder what
happened here I got some weird chemical
reaction that's right and I'm not sure
if it's because of the ginger or a
certain type of garlic or the iron of
the pan or what it is that I have green
garlic so not green eggs green garlic it
just suddenly changed green and
everything turned green on it I've never
seen this before
strangest thing well I'm gonna eat it I
hope I live so talk to you later yeah so
the green garlic and I looked this up
it's green blue it looks like a swimming
pool I mean it's really bright you
didn't see it so clearly in the picture
but boy when you see it in real life you
go this is not normal this isn't food
color but it is there's a reason for it
and I looked it up so I looked it up on
the internet yes it's quite it is a know
one thing it doesn't happen very often
but it Gulf garlic contains it says
certain sulfur compounds which can react
with copper to form copper sulfate which
if you've ever seen it is a really nice
bright green blue crystal blue or green
and compound this is compa this amount
of copper needed for this reaction is
very small and it's frequently found in
normal water supplies but I used I
didn't use any water so it wasn't the
water
I had olive oil in there I put onions in
garlic ginger and
lemon juice okay now that's important
because listen to this raw garlic
contains an enzyme that if not
inactivated by heating reacts with trace
amounts of sulfur in the garlic and
copper from water or utensils to form
blue copper sulfate the garlic is still
safe to eat now I don't think it came
from my utensils because it's a cast
iron band it's not copper if the garlic
was not fully mature or dry pigments in
the garlic may turn green when in the
presence of acid acid what did I put in
there lemon juice I put some lemon juice
in because I had lots of it I wanted to
use it before it goes bad so I dumped
some into the frying pan with the onions
and then when I put the garlic in the
acid cause started the reaction it still
could be dependent on the garlic maybe
this is Chinese garlic maybe they threw
a bunch of heavy metal waste in their
soil right I don't know
so maybe it was that particular garlic
that had some copper at and then the
acid just went in a chemical reaction
took place and boom for the first time
in my life blue-green garlic in the
frying pan the process is a chemical
reaction between heavy metals usually
found in the onion or garlic depending
on soil conditions and natural sulfuric
compounds that the bulb makes as for the
heavy metals the usual suspects are
copper zinc iron manganese growers
believe that adding copper to the soil
makes for better onions as per the
article as the article alludes copper
requirements for onions grown in organic
soils in New York so maybe they added it
in because they thought it would grow
better or maybe it just was in the soil
could be some chemical from something
somewhere else and so anyway that's it
so there's a chemical reason it can
happen I I might try it again I might
try putting some lemon in just to see if
I can reproduce the experiment but it's
kind of weird when you want to serve it
to somebody and it says what is this
blue-green food and my plate
um but anyway that's the mystery solved
thanks for the Internet and so that's it